So now that we've seen SQL Server running in a container,
what are some of the things that you need to know about
running SQL Server in a container?
Well, first of all,
you have to map port 1433, which is SQL Server's default port in
the container, to a port on the host system.
This can allow you access to that running instance of SQL Server.
Next, if you're running one of those Microsoft images like the
one we pulled down in the example,
you need to supply an SA password with one of the environment variables.
You also need to accept the EULA.
If you don't do both of these things, the Microsoft images won't run.
However, you're not stuck with Microsoft images.
You can also create custom images of your own,
and your custom images will not necessarily have those requirements.
You can also add databases to your custom images.
So while the Microsoft images come up with just the system databases and
no user databases, if you create your own Docker image,
your own Docker image can have databases preloaded into it,
and so those databases are ready to run right as soon as the image comes up.
Next, containers are stateless.
That means when the container ends,
every change that you made in that container goes away.
Typically,
this is not good for database kind of applications where
you want your changes to be persisted.
If you want to persist your changes, in other words,
have that containerized version of SQL Server write to a database and have
those database changes persisted beyond the life of the container, you'll
need to use an external volume in order to do that.
And containers can access external volumes, and write data to those volumes, and
have that data persisted beyond the life of the container.
So, in summary, in this session,
we saw that Docker containers enable you to deploy new SQL Server
instances in just a few seconds. We saw how you can retrieve container
images from the Docker Hub and get them running.
We saw how to run a SQL Server container using the docker run command,
and we saw how you could connect to that SQL Server container from the normal SQL Server management tools.